good evening and welcome back to downing
street for today's coronavirus briefing
i'm joined by chief medical officer
professor chris witte and by professor
steve paris the
medical director of nhs england
the start of our covid19 vaccination
program on
tuesday was the latest in a long line of
firsts for the nhs
the nhs was the first healthcare system
in the world
to roll out the vaccines for other
deadly diseases
like tb measles mumps and rubella
and meningitis c so i'm proud that we
can now add covid19 to that list
before updating you on vaccine
deployment
i'd like to go through the latest
coronavirus data
the average number of new cases each day
is now
and that has risen over the last week
today there are 15
242 covert patients in hospital across
the uk
which is slightly less than last week
and sadly
516 deaths were reported yesterday
and the fall in the number of cases has
flattened off
and is rising in some parts of the
country
like kent and essex and some parts of
london
and this shows us that this fight is not
over
and how we must all play our part and
stay on our guard
now and through christmas we've got help
on the horizon and we can all see that
with the vaccine
so don't blow it now and of course
this shows why the deployment of the
vaccine is so
important i just want to take a moment
to thank everybody involved in the
vaccine rollout so far
which has been done with such
professionalism and skill
today i want to pay special tribute and
thank pharmacists
who are working with such a tricky
vaccine must be kept cold at minus 70
degrees
and they've done so much work to get
ready for this moment
at such pace as of today we're
vaccinating in 73 hospitals across the
uk
tens of thousands of people have had the
jab and i want to set out the next steps
i can confirm that we'll shortly expand
our vaccination program further
to 10 more locations in england and from
next week we plan to begin vaccinations
in gp led sites
and vaccinate in care homes by christmas
we'll keep on expanding this rollout to
reach more and more people
as more vaccines come on stream we'll
open vaccination centers in larger
venues like sports stadia
and conference halls next year and
that's when most people
can expect to get their jabs when the
time comes
the nhs will get in touch with you so
you don't need to
come forward and get into contact with
the nhs
on tuesday in milton keynes it was great
to meet some of the patients and the
staff
involved and i love what barbara who's
82 said when she got her job there she
said
i'd much rather get the vaccine than
kobit 19 itself
i'm with barbara it's free according to
need
and it's the very best way to protect
you and to protect those around you
and when enough people get vaccinated
and we see those hospitalization numbers
coming down we can then start
lifting the restrictions which have made
this year so tough
i felt really proud when i saw mohamed
hassan
and i sat with him as he got his jab
he's a doctor at
milton keynes hospital who volunteered
to treat covered patients and himself
caught covered in the first peak and he
said that the jab was painless
but he also talked about the challenges
that we face right now
whilst we roll out the jab right across
the country
even with this mass vaccination program
underway
for the next few months we will not have
sufficient
protection through the vaccination
program and this
is always the most difficult time for
the nhs
anyway in the winter months and
with the number of cases flattening
again we've all got to do
our bit and not put more pressure on the
nhs
to do that we must keep respecting the
rules where we are
and take those sensible steps that we
can all take like washing our hands
covering our face and making space
between people
respecting that social distancing
and the rules that come with it we can't
stop doing that now just because the
vaccine is here
and even if you've had the jab
you're not immune because the vaccine
will not
fully protect you until seven days after
you've received the second dose
and we don't yet know if it'll stop you
from passing on the disease to other
people so we have to all
keep acting as if we can still pass it
on
and that is the safest way to get the
number of cases down
and keep people safe i'm particularly
concerned about the number of cases in
london
kent and essex cases are rising
and in many areas already high looking
into the detail the testing results and
surveys show us that by far the fastest
rise is amongst secondary school-age
children 11 to 18 years old while the
rate amongst
adults in london is broadly flat
but we know from experience that a sharp
rise in cases in younger people
can lead to a rise amongst more
vulnerable age groups
later we've seen that happen before
so we need to do everything we can to
stop the spread amongst
school age children in london right now
we must not wait until the review which
will take place on the 16th
of december we need to take targeted
action
immediately having spoken to the leaders
of
london's councils and to the mayor we've
decided to put in place an immediate
plan
for testing all secondary age children
in the seven worst affected boroughs of
london in parts of essex that border
london
and parts of kent we want to
keep schools open because that's both
right for education and right for public
health
we're therefore surging mobile testing
units
and we'll be working with schools and
local authorities to encourage
these children and their families to get
tested over the coming days
more details will be set out tomorrow i
want to urge all those involved to step
forward
for the testing it's important that 11
to 18 year olds get tested in these
boroughs irrespective of whether they
have symptoms and this is a really
important point because we know
that you can have covid and you can
still pass it on
even without symptoms around one in
three people with covid have no symptoms
at all but they can still pass it on to
others
and i know that nobody wants to be
responsible for
endangering those around them so i urge
everybody involved to get a test we
search
testing in leicester we search testing
in liverpool
we know that community testing can work
and it requires a collective spirit of
determination
and of resilience and of people coming
together to do the right thing
something i have confidence that
everybody involved
will find in the days to come this sort
of community testing deployment is not
just available in
kent essex and london where cases are
rising but
also across the country to help keep
cases coming down where they are we're
now working with over a hundred local
authorities across
england and with the three devolved
administrations
to help get cases down using community
testing
this includes manchester kirklees
lancashire lancashire are planning to
mobilize community-based testing in
their areas before
christmas as are manchester and
kirkleese and this offer remains
available
all across the uk to be done
in partnership with local authorities
and devolved administrations
we can deploy this sort of massive
testing because of the work that nhs
tests and traits have done so
effectively to build
our vast testing capacity our new nhs
test and trace
business plan which we've published
today sets out how we'll grow this yet
further
and today's figures on testing and
tracing show that
thanks to the improvements in the way
that we do contact tracing
by reducing the number of repeat calls
that are made to individual households
which is what have been
been one of the pieces of feedback that
we've received our contact racing now
reaches
86 of contacts and that's up from
around 60 just a few weeks ago
so i want to pay tribute to the contact
racing team working
under dido harding for delivering this
very significant improvement
and from today i can confirm that
people instructed to isolate by the
covert 19
app and are eligible can claim
the 500 pounds test and trace support
payment directly through the app too
even as we work to overcome these
challenges i'm determined that we also
lose
no time in modernizing our hospitals so
today i can also announce 1800 projects
which are being funded from the 600
million pound package
to upgrade and refurbish hospitals
across 178 nhs trusts this year
this will include projects for fixing
roofs
for new mri machines and these projects
that will be completed over the winter
period will make a real difference for
staff
and patients alike and help the nhs to
build back better
these announcements that i'm making
today show just what a massive effort is
needed
every day to tackle coronavirus even
with the vaccine on the horizon
i'm very grateful to all those working
in schools
in local authorities delivering the
vaccine rollout
our pharmacists nhs test and trace and
the hospital improvement program for all
the efforts that they need to deliver on
all of this
it shows that every part of our nhs from
gp surgeries to hospitals
every part of government local and
national is all
playing its part in the battle against
this virus
we've got to remember in this battle
that we're all on the same side
and especially with christmas coming
there's something that we can all do
which is to respect the rules and all of
us at all times
do all that we can to stop the spread of
the virus
this is a marathon not a sprint we've
got to keep going
the finish line is in sight and i know
together
we can get there
we're now going to go straight to
questions from the public and then
questions uh from the media uh to um
to professor whitty
professor powers and myself
first if we turn to phil who is coming
by video
from south london
good afternoon what are the exit
criteria that will see the end of the
tier system
if it is vaccination what percentage of
the community
or population need to be vaccinated for
us to exit the tears
thank you thanks phil this is a great
question
and it's one i'm asked a lot so i will
try to answer it at high
level and then turn to the chief medical
officer for more detail
the simple answer phil is that we will
keep looking at the five indicators that
we have
for deciding on which tiers areas need
to go into
and whilst we roll out the vaccine we'll
look at the impact
of people having been vaccinated the
impact that has on reducing the number
of hospitalizations the number of cases
the number of cases in the over 60s
the positivity in the testing and the
trajectory of all those
indicators because it's by reducing
the number of people in hospital and by
reducing the number of people who die
from coronavirus that the vaccine will
help us to get out of this
so i can't answer the part of the
question which is what percentage of the
community or population need to be
vaccinated
for us to exit the tears because we
don't know yet
the impact of the vaccine on how much
people
can transmit the virus so what we'll do
is watch the
data that we look at now and the vaccine
will of course
i hope very much suppress that data
in the months to come as we roll the
vaccine out to more and more of the
population
chris so what i'd add to that is that
the vaccine will over time as it spreads
through a greater and greater percentage
of the most vulnerable population
the vaccine will take the risk slowly
down
firstly we'll start to see some of the
mortality
fortunately falling because the most
vulnerable would be vaccinated first
but that will still leave a lot of
people who if they catch covid a
significant proportion small
proportion but significant given the
numbers will end up in the in
the nhs and potentially could become
unwell uh our severely unwell end up in
intensive care
and so to get through all of those uh
people will take quite some time now
this assumes that the vaccine
just protects people from severe disease
and from uh
covid infections themselves uh as the
secretary of state has said
the thing we don't know is will will
this fact that will the vaccines we have
available
reduce the transmission on our
expectation is it will
but uh that is not certain yet and we
can't be absolutely
sure of that and depending on whether it
does and what percentage
it does will uh will actually lead to
trying to work out what percentage of
people need to be vaccinated for us to
make significant
uh forward steps but and there's the
final but in this
uh we won't have a situation where we're
in the tears as we are
at the moment and then suddenly
everything stops
what will happen is the risk will
gradually go down and down and down
we'll be able to walk backwards from
many of the things we're doing at the
moment
possibly at different rates in different
parts of the country
and at a certain point the uh the risk
will be
at a level which society uh represented
by
uh our political leaders and in
parliament
will say look this this level of risk is
one we are prepared to tolerate
uh as we do for example with flu so
you've got to remember that with flu
there are in any given year on an
average year about 7 000 people die a
year of flu
and in a bad flu year maybe 20 000
that's the reason we vaccinate but we
accept that there is some risk
at the end of this there will be some
risk but we'll have brought it down to a
level
where the mortality rates are much lower
where there isn't the risk of the nhs
being overwhelmed
and when people feel that this is
probably the right moment to
actually take them right down to very
very low levels in terms of the
restrictions we've got
but it'll be a gradual process not a
sudden process
thanks very much thanks for that asking
that question phil because i know a lot
of people
are have been looking for the answer to
that question and uh
i think the chief medical officer set it
out brilliantly
the next question is from kate from
dudley
and kate asked new year's eve is a
special time for some people as much as
christmases will we be able to spend it
with our close
family members well kate the answer to
the question
is yes if you live with them in
your household but we are not
bringing in a special set of rules for
new year
as we have for christmas i know
this has been such a tough year for so
many of us
2020 and so we've brought in the
rules around christmas to make sure that
people have that
opportunity to be able to see some
members of their family
who they haven't been able to all year
but we've got to be careful and let's
not blow it especially with the vaccine
on the horizon
and let's make sure that we all take the
actions we need to
to look after other people and to look
after
especially those who are vulnerable to
the disease over christmas
and um we therefore haven't put in place
a uh a set of uh a specific set of rules
for
new year uh or indeed for lots of other
holidays
uh that uh that you know on special
occasions
uh throughout this this crisis just for
christmas
so i i know that that's frustrating but
unfortunately it's necessary to keep the
virus under control i don't know whether
you want to
add anything thanks very much we'll now
turn to
pim from the bbc
thank you very much secretary of state a
question for you and and professor chris
witte first
how concerned are you about this
increase in cases in the southeast which
relate back to infections a week or so
ago
when lockdown was still in place or just
ending and
how likely is it that you'll move london
and essex
into the top tier top three when you
carry out your review next week
thanks you well in answer to the second
part of the question
we'll look at the data the most
up-to-date data we have
on the 16th so next wednesday
of course we're looking at it all the
time but that's the moment we'll take a
formal review and a formal decision
and so i i don't think it's right to
preempt that decision
we publish all of the data that we're
going to be looking at and we've
explained the five
indicators um and you know these are
these decisions you know we are what we
think is necessary to keep the virus
under control on the broad strategy of
suppressing the virus until the vaccine
can make us safe
so having set out the strategy and
setting out the data that we look at
uh you'll understand it's it's six days
to go until that formal decision has
been taken
and we'll want to i don't want to
preempt that by saying more about the
specific decision on the 16th
however having said that of course um we
do look at the data daily and
um and as i said in my opening comments
we have seen those
worrying rises in in
not just in in london in other parts of
the
southeast and east of england as well
that's a witty um i mean
of course we're concerned and of course
i think anybody uh who's living in those
areas is going to be concerned
throughout this there's this very
difficult balance where if we
uh don't do a sufficient number of
things the rates start to go up and this
is the period of the year when for all
respiratory viruses
rates go up and you can see this across
europe this is not something which is
unique to
england or the uk this is a this is a
across the whole of the continent
and in the areas in the north
and the midlands in particular where
people have done a remarkable job of
coming together to
meet the restrictions stop doing social
activities that are not necessary
reducing uh contacts they have managed
to bring the rates
down they've been falling right really
quite consistently uh in the northwest
and northeastern bits of the midlands
but they've not been falling
in some of the areas where we've had
lower uh restrictions in place
in particular parts of london
northeastern london particular
uh uh bits of essex and kent
and this is also true actually in in
some parts of lincolnshire as well
and therefore we need to look very
seriously at these areas and ask the
question
is there an is are there enough uh
measures going in
uh or do we have to have more and that's
something which ministers will have to
look at
next week but i think if these rates
were going up
towards the tail end of lockdown that is
quite a concerning situation
so i think we need to actually keep
quite a close eye on that because we all
know
the christmas period if people go too
far in the christmas period it's going
to be a period of risk everywhere so if
you add the rates going up
difficult time of year christmas period
and then going into the toughest time of
the year for the nhs january and
february are always the toughest time
for the nhs that does paint quite a
concerning picture
i'll ask if i may as professor powers to
comment on the
nhs side as well because in the same way
that we've seen this absolutely
uh fantastic reduction in the daily case
rate in
parts of the north of england
and some parts of the midlands um and
indeed in the southwest around
uh bristol uh where people i just urge
everybody to stick at it
because they've been doing a great job
and i know they've been
sacrifices of in those areas but
um the pressures on the nhs are coming
down
and um everybody should you know feel
that they have been playing their part
in bringing their case rates down
we're now seeing them go up in in other
parts of the country
um and obviously having to address that
including the pressures that that brings
to the nhs
yes so as you know hospitalizations
follow infection rates very closely
and so in those areas of the country as
the secretary of state has said where we
have seen infection rates fall over the
last month or so
so the north east the north west
liverpool in particular we've seen
hospitalizations fall the number of
people in hospital fall and pressure on
hospitals fall
but we've also seen in parts of the
country where infection rates have not
fallen or indeed arising
uh pressures remain on the nhs or start
to rise
and that's particularly in parts of
london uh in east of england
uh and parts of the southeast and where
infection rates are at the high
such as the northern parts of kent we
are seeing a lot of pressure on the nhs
so
as ever yes there is concern when
infection rates stay high or arising
because that inevitably will lead to
more hospitalizations
more people in itu and of course
tragically more debts
so it is critical that we continue with
the measures to bring infection rates
down
and ensure that those numbers start to
fall
thanks hugh next question from tom clark
at itv
tom hi thank you secretary of state um
given what we've just heard from
professor whitty
is it not inevitable that we're going to
see a dangerous
third wave in cases now
and if that is the going to be the case
shouldn't we act sooner rather than wait
until next week to make a decision on
further restrictions
if i could also ask a question about
your uh the testing program that you
just announced i don't believe you
specified the type of test going to be
used
um if it is natural flow test there have
obviously been questions raised about
how effective they have been at
reducing overall cases where they've
been deployed
so are you confident that the school
testing program is going to make
the difference you need it to make well
the
in a way i'll answer i'll try to answer
both questions and then ask
professor witty to to uh respond as well
um we're we're doing everything we can
to try to keep the case rates down and
that does include sending in
community testing and in particular
because we're seeing this very specific
rise amongst a particular age
group 18 11 to 18 year olds
and particularly in northeast london
we're therefore sending in the mobile
testing units and the
targeted testing and i look forward to
working with
with the schools and we're already
working with the local authorities in
that part of london
uh to uh to try to find and then
isolate those who are tested positive
um the um and that can help us and can
play a part
in keeping case rates down but only as
part of an
overall uh package where
where it's individuals behavior that can
make the biggest difference to
keeping case rates down so
these decisions are not inevitable the
decisions on tiering
and the measures that need to be taken
depend on how people respond
and how people behave you know and we've
seen in parts of the country where
um where where people have really
responded to the need to tackle very
high case rates
uh professor powers just mentioned uh
liverpool
it's also true that in other parts of uh
the north of england
the case rates are really coming down
sharply manchester for instance we're
rolling out community testing there as
well
and on the specific types of testing you
asked about
in the first instance we'll be we'll be
using pcr tests
in london because the mobile tech units
are uh
are ready to roll and we'll also be
rolling out
lateral flow tests they're both
effective they have
they could they have slightly different
characteristics can be used in different
ways
and what you know the lateral flows of
course don't need to be sent off to a
lab so they have that advantage
the pcr tests do but they tend to pick
up
more of the disease even before people
are symptomatic
so we'll be using a combination but in
the first instance the
what we'll be doing this week and next
week in
northeast london is largely uh with the
with the lab-based pcr tests cmo um i
mean i i just really reassure the point
that and
a third wave is not inevitable but it is
the way that we prevent it is by
everybody
all of us coming together and actually
deciding we want to try and stick to the
guidance that's there
and you know accept that christmas is a
period when we can do things that's the
reason why the rules being relaxed
that doesn't mean we should do things
people should really be very very
sensible over that period and over this
whole
period at risk because this is a very
risky period for us but it is definitely
not inevitable
uh that things will get uh substantially
worse that's something we need to all
work
together on on testing i think that what
as you imply
the key question is not just testing
it's how they're then used and how
people respond to them
a testing program is a useful addition
to other things
on its own it is not capable of turning
the tide if things are going very badly
but as an additional thing to all the
other measures all the social distancing
measures
all the npi measures all the things
people have to do in terms of keeping
their distance
wearing a mask indoors if you add it to
those things it adds an additional bit
of heft and that's what we've seen
in many places around the world but it
does mean the right people have to come
forward for testing because it's only
useful when it picks up people who are
positive
and then those people have to uh take
the guidance seriously
self-isolate make sure that if they have
contacts they also know about it and
they self-isolate if you do that
it pulls out of the system people who
currently
are infectious and means that they don't
go on unknowingly
to pass this on because they're the the
thing where it really helps this kind of
testing
is there are some people who have no
symptoms at the moment they don't
realize they've got covered it's not
their fault
but they have got covered and for a
period either before they get symptoms
or even if they don't get symptoms
they can pass it on and what the testing
can do is it can say look
you feel fine that's good but actually
you've got this virus
and please isolate because if you
isolate for a
period of time that protects everyone
around you and then everyone they go on
to meet it helps break a chain of
transmission
so testing is very useful but only if
people then act on the results
thanks very much and next question from
victoria mcdonald at channel 4
thank you secretary of state today we
have seen the publication of the interim
findings of the ochenton review
into the maternity care at roseberry and
telford nhs
trust it makes for a very painful
read but equally importantly it calls
for immediate action and maternity units
across england will you personally agree
uh
agree sorry will you personally
agree that these need to be acted on
immediately
yes the ocondom report is shocking
reading
and we've already taken
the actions that were proposed in an
earlier
part of the report and we'll of course
study the proposals
that have been made in the report very
very closely
i'll ask steve paris uh to set out more
details
uh and uh and and i know how
how closely the nhs has been uh
monitoring this to make sure that we
take the actions that are needed
to make sure that maternity services are
safe
uh thank you victoria yes and i too uh
welcome uh
uh donna rockington's report that was
published today
i know just how painful and harrowing it
has been
for all the families who have suffered
from the shortcomings
in maternity care at that trust uh are
not
clearly offer my sympathy to all of them
i met
some of the families last year and that
meeting really moved me
and really affected me and i i
understand just what they
uh they have gone through um when
although it's of course impossible for
anybody who's not been affected to
to know exactly what they've gone
through i should say that but
um i think as donna said in the report
um
there are two things predominantly that
that they want out of this firstly is to
to understand what went wrong
and then secondly to ensure that the
learning from what
went wrong can be acted upon and i do
hope that
donna's first report today goes some way
towards
answering those two questions although
clearly she has more work
to do and will publish a final report
next week and yes i do think it is
very important that the recommendations
for the trust
are acted upon immediately and i know
the trust has been working hard to
improve maternity services but they have
further work to do
there are also seven recommendations for
the wider system when it comes to
maternity care
and at nhs england nhs improvement we
have been
working on those already we haven't
waited for the report but clearly
there is more work to be done as well so
i think this is an important step but uh
clearly we now need to act on those
recommendations
thank you very much the next uh question
is from
rajiv sal at the guardian are you
hello secretary of state this question
for you
your former neighbour alex born
is supplying millions of test tubes for
nhs
coded 19 test kits after sending
you a personal whatsapp message offering
his services
did you discuss mr bourne's offer of
help with anyone
in your office or your department
and if so would would you be prepared to
release any of your communications
with mr bourne thank you thank you i've
read about this
uh in the guardian and i had absolutely
nothing to do with that
with that contract and um
what i'd say more broadly is that i'm
very pleased that so many people came
forward
during that during the spring of this
year when we really needed
the nation really needed the support of
huge numbers of people
whether they came forward to supply ppe
or in this case to supply some of the
supplies that go into the uh
into the testing kits and i'm very
grateful to
all of them and um but but i'm afraid
i can't answer any more than to say that
i had nothing to do with this
particular contract at all thanks very
much the next question is from
dominic yeatman at the metro
hello health secretary if as seems
possible the failure to reach a brexit
agreement
means britons are banned from traveling
to europe under their coronavirus
regulations from january the first will
britain reciprocate
and what bearing would that have on
infection rates
and secondly if i'm if i may um dr emily
mcmurtr of the royal college of nursing
told mps today that at the height of
crisis ppe was routinely re-labeled with
uh new use by dates much had rotted in
its boxes and
she herself opened a crate of gowns to
find a load of insects creeping out
would you like to apologize to frontlife
frontline staff what they had to work
with
well firstly on the um on the
international travel question
we make uh judgments and decisions on
uh what international travel can be
recommended and and how many people
and from what countries and or parts of
countries you have to
quarantine based on public health advice
that's the approach that we have and
that's the approach that we'll be
sticking to
um the on the second question about ppe
look there was a massive effort as in
fact the
previous question implied there was a
massive effort involving a huge number
of people including the rcn actually who
did
brilliant work coming forward and
helping to ensure that we could get the
ppe supplies that we needed
and i'm really really pleased that
so many people contributed and there was
never a national outage of ppe
now that doesn't mean that it wasn't
difficult at times
and there were undoubtedly challenges
but we had to move heaven and earth to
deliver the amount of ppe that
we did to the system um and
now i'm glad to say uh we have over 30
billion items
uh of ppe and we're also have developed
we've also developed the
domestic manufacture so that we won't be
reliant on getting it in from abroad
so much in the future and um a very
significant proportion of the
future supplies of ppe for instance the
sort of gowns that you mentioned
can be manufactured domestically to make
sure that we're in a much better place
for any uh future crisis like this one
the final question is from stefan bosca
at city am
stefan thank you secretary of state
um is there any plans at the moment to
reopen the nightingale hospital at the
excel center considering london's
surging covered rates
and secondly is there any point in
putting
london's hospitality sector in tier
three what would be just four days in
the lead up to the christmas period
considering the damage that this would
have on a sector that's already on its
knees
well obviously i understand the impact
of the decisions that we make and the
tiering decisions that we make
on different sectors of the economy but
we have to make them in order to keep
the virus under control and we've all
seen the consequences
of what happens if the virus gets out of
control
in other countries thankfully here we've
protected the nhs
all the way through so the nhs has
always been there for you
if you've needed it and that's been
absolutely at the heart of our
of our goals um i'll ask professor paris
to
explain what's happening in london
in to make sure that the nhs in london
can deal with the pressures that
it's uh it's under but that's the
approach that we take
and look i get it from the the point of
view of the hospitality sector of course
i do
um the christmas rules specifically
uh don't actually affect the uh approach
to the hospitality sector they're about
who you can meet up with uh in your own
home um and so it's about the rules
about who you can meet with rather than
the rules about whether hospitality is
open or not
which continues to follow the approach
in your local
tear over christmas that's unchanged by
the by the christmas rules
but on the nhs in london specifically
yes so as you know the nightingale
hospitals have been our insurance policy
throughout this pandemic
to ensure that if nhs capacity is
stretched
that we have additional capacity on
stream to be able to use and
again in the first wave in the spring we
used the
nightingale in the excel center in the
london
those nightingale hospitals have been
kept
over the course of the summer and into
the autumn and indeed
as i announced here number of weeks ago
we
we stood up the ones in the north of the
country as we saw infection rates rise
uh in that part of the country in
particular and of course the pressure on
the nhs following and indeed we've been
using
the nightingale hospital in manchester
uh
in london uh we are seeing uh worrying
right
rise and infections i said we are seeing
pressure in the nhs particularly in the
east of the city
but we're not at the levels that we saw
in april
and therefore we can manage within
existing hospitals in london
and of course our first step in managing
capacities is mutual aid between
hospitals
we have the ability to move patients
between hospitals
from hospitals that are pressured to
those that have less pressure and also
we can we can
move staff and equipment too but the
nightingale
is important uh we are keeping it under
review
and of course we can also we're also
keeping under review
different uses for the nightingale in
london so it's really important that we
don't see further rises of infection
rates in london and we don't see
pressure rising on the nhs
but the nightingales will be there as
that insurance policy if we need them
thanks very much everybody that
concludes today's coronavirus briefing
here from downing street thank you
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news